[HEARTBEAT]
>> Now let's experience more
heart connection and increase
your coherence.
Howard Martin will lead you
through the quick coherence
technique.
>> I'd like you to bring
your attention and awareness
to your heart, to the
center of your chest.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now imagine your breath
is flowing in and out
through your heart
or chest area,
breathing a little slower
and deeper than usual.
Just find an easy rhythm
that's comfortable.
Putting your attention
around the heart area
helps you center
and get coherent.
As you continue
heart-focused breathing,
make a sincere
attempt to experience
a regenerative feeling,
such as appreciation
or care for someone or
something in your life.
Perhaps you can
re-experience a time
when you felt love
or appreciation
for a person, a pet, a time
in nature, an accomplishment,
or just breathe the attitude
of love or gratitude.
As you're doing this, you're
increasing your coherence
level.
Your nervous system
is synchronizing.
Hormones are being released
into your system that
regenerate you.
Signals from your
heart to your brain
are moving through your
emotional and higher brain
centers.
This opens the door for you
to experience more uplifting
emotions and access
to intuitive insight.
>> You've just experienced
the quick coherence technique.
You can shift to your heart
and do it anytime, anywhere,
eyes open or closed.
The steps we just did are
heart-focused breathing,
activate a positive
renewing feeling.
Quick coherence activates our
heart qualities, such as care,
compassion, and gratitude.
If you can't feel one
particular heart quality,
go to another one,
while continuing
heart-focused breathing to
energize the heart quality.
This starts to release
the neurochemicals
that lift your system,
clear your mind,
and increase wholeness health.
We suggest you practice the
quick coherence technique
several times
during your day, it
can be especially useful to
restore balance and flow when
you're feeling
stressed or overloaded.
Another good time to use
it is during transitions
like before meetings,
before going into work,
or when coming home.
An especially useful
application is
before important communications,
like phone calls, emails,
or when needing to speak to
somebody about a problem.
This can prevent a lot of stress
to have to clean up after.
The heart math tools
you are learning
will help you uncover
your own capacity
to create a new reality
that is best for you.
With the quick
coherence technique,
you strengthen the
attributes of the heart,
such as love, appreciation,
care, compassion, breathing
in these qualities of the
heart and imprinting them
into your intentions for
health, performance, better
communication.
Once you get your system
focused in heart coherence,
this is the optimal time
to envision what you
want to change for the better.
>> And honestly, I really just
sort of bask in this amazing
feeling as I'm going along and
linger in this place for a long
while, because it
really feels great.
And it really sets my tone
and the pace for what I'm
going to create in this day.
And this is how I practice
the quick coherence technique.
>> Just throughout my day,
I find myself breathing
into my heart's area a
lot, and I catch myself.
I'm always amazed at
how often I am tense.
You know, as much as I go
through the world pretty
happy and joyful
and optimistic, I'm
just not activating that part
as often as I would like.
So every time I reconnect,
I'm like, oh, OK, right.
This is my home state.
>> I like it, because
I can do it on the fly.
I can do it in the moment.
But I can also do it to prep
for some of those events that
might be triggers
for me, and not
always the dangerous
situations you
might think of in the field,
but even dealing in my career
with maybe a boss
that was problematic
or traffic when I
lived in the DC area.
Quick coherence
was a great go-to
for me to just get
into a coherent place,
feel better, and
once again, thereby
just giving me clarity
of mind to not let
the stressors really get to me.
>> The people don't have
to go to meditate or to be
on their own or to get
away from the situation.
What I love about
HeartMath tools
is using them with eyes open.
So when people
are in and talking
about the conflict between
them, using the tools
while their eyes are
open, still talking,
helps to really heal the
differences or get to a place
where the differences can be
healed a bit more effectively.
>> And for me, that has been
something I've taken seriously
without the seriousness,
but a commitment.
I've made a commitment and
intention to be aware of that,
to do the spot checks, to
practice those techniques,
because I want to
contribute love.
>> Signals go up into the
brain that begin to open up
the higher perceptual
centers of the brain,
so you begin to
perceive differently.
Things aren't
necessarily as stressful.
Things aren't as confusing.
Things aren't as
frustrating or agitated when
you're in that state.
And you're able to see
into how to navigate life.
>> And actually, as
you practice this,
the feeling gets easier and
easier to recall and to choose
on demand, so we can
live a more grateful,
appreciative life without
waiting for something external
to inspire that appreciation,
but live more in that
heart-based quality of
gratitude and appreciation more
of the time, which improves
our health, our relationships,
our communications, our
insight, our intuition.
It has global benefits for us.
>> And all that happens very
quickly when you use that quick
coherence technique,
which is simply this--
heart focus,
heart-focused breathing,
and the activation of a
regenerative uplifting
motion of heart feeling.
>> Enjoy the process.